---
title: "Machine Learning Applications: Empowering Medical Science Through Computing"
date: 01/31/2014 15:00
author:
  - loizos-markides
  - zena-hira
room: Huxley 345 
template: event.jade
---
Increasing computational power over the past decade has enabled the
rapid development of a variety of new machine learning methods that
primarily aim to analyse medical data, in order to offer extended
insights about the inner workings of humans. Evidently, understanding
the human body better can potentially aid the earlier diagnosis and
treatment of certain diseases that have been troubling humans for many
years now.

An inherent problem of medical data is their increased complexity and
high dimensionality, which is essentially caused by the complicated
design of the human body but is also a result of noise coming from the
acquisition hardware. In this talk, we will demonstrate some recent
machine learning methodologies for removing noise and extracting
inference from medical data using linear and non-linear dimensionality
reduction techniques along with a set of unsupervised and supervised
classification algorithms. Moreover, we show how these techniques can be
best applied in order to aid the diagnosis of different types of cancer
and also help in understanding how the human brain works when we are
performing various actions in our everyday life.

<span class="more"></span>

<script async class="speakerdeck-embed"
data-id="4f6eb370ab7f0131ea7e0ec58324872e" data-ratio="1.33333333333333"
src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js"></script>
